So we've learned a little
bit about auto layouts.
And like I said, we could go all the way.
We could turn each and every one of
these buttons into an auto layout.
We could do every card
into an auto layout.
We could go all the way, and it would be
a lot of me doing the same thing over and
over again, which is maybe useful,
but not great television.
So let's kinda just look at how we could
take existing things that might be in
a mock-up, and convert one or
two of them into an auto layout.
So in this case,
we have these tabs, right?
And each one of these is they've separated
the background from the actual text.
But we saw with the button before that
we can easily take two shapes and
create an auto layout out of that.
So I could theoretically kinda zoom in
a little bit here and select these two and
hit Shift+A, and you're like,
no, what happened, right?
Well, the default in a lot of
cases is to do the hug contents.
So we go ahead, and
as much as I love a good hug, let's see,
we can stretch it out
just like that again.
And we're gonna have to do this for
all three of them, but
it effectively looks the same, right?
And we can actually
take these two as well.
I'll do them both kinda at the same time.
They're the same color, but
they're different rectangles.
And we'll go ahead and
we'll change these to fixed, and
then I will kinda stretch
them both out as well.
So each one of these tabs
is now an auto layout,
very similar to what
we do with the button.
If I changed the text, it would grow or
shrink along with the text,
cuz this page,
when it appears on a desktop browser,
are kind of like tabs as we know them and
love them.
So in that world, we might want
them to expand and contract, right,
especially as we get into making
reusable components, right?
Having ones that behave
the correct way on both mobile and
desktop is somewhat important.
And then we can take this overall frame,
hit Shift+A again.
You see it moves slightly,
we can adjust that.
But now this is an auto layout tabs
container with these three tabs.
And if I took one of these, I held Alt,
I can just add another tab.
Now, that does overflow a little
bit in this case cuz it's growing,
cuz that's the way auto
layout is supposed to behave.
If I took kind of the entire frame here,
let's see if I can actually do it.
So I just turned the set of the five high
level tabs into an auto layout itself.
So we'll zoom out, which is kinda the way
the divs stack normally in the browser.
So now if I go ahead, and
we can grab one of these.
There we go.
We'll kinda add it in there.
You can see that the entire layout
just moves down as well, right,
so each one of these.
And we can go ahead we can make the navbar
that space between auto layout.
I wonder if I just take this
one real quick as well,
cuz I wrapped this one in a frame earlier.
It was just two kind of two flat
shapes laid on top of each other.
Earlier in the course, I took each one,
and I made it at least a frame,
which means I should be
able to do the same here.
Now, sorry,
I could do this with each button.
I can go on and on and on, but now I
could theoretically, let's do play me.
We gotta get the whole frame in this case.
So grab that course card.
And now you can see that my layout just
kinda grows along with the content.
And again, I could take this through
all of its natural conclusion, right?
If I turned even the card into an auto
layout, I could write more texts.
It would grow and expand.
Everything would shift around
as I would want it to, right?
So the actual kind of pieces as well,
you'll notice that I have that problem
that we solved in the constraint
section earlier where it won't,
in this case, grow.
But I can at that point also,
for these higher level pieces,
have them either fill the container.
Yeah, let's go for it,
actually, in this case, and
you could see that they start to fill out.
This is not an auto layout, but
I can begin to take the same
approach all the way through.
And the term of art that we
would use is responsive, right?
Would I need to theoretically,
to Omar's question earlier,
maybe have a slightly different layout for
as we get to the bigger sizes?
Yeah, but in a lot of cases,
that's the same way we're writing a lot
times custom CSS for various breakpoints.
We do something similar in design.
That said, there is something to his
question still that we need to address,
right, this idea of reusable pieces.
If I can make styles for the header here,
and I can change this color from
primary 400, and I can change it
to this one to a different color,
but you'll notice the other
card doesn't change.
We would want them all to kind
of ideally all sync up, so
we'd make one change to one card.
I can change what this color means.
I could change all
the primary 400 to a teal.
But I couldn't necessarily.
I'd still have to do each
one of these by hand, right?
Clearly, if there's a little
voice in your head going like,
this seems like a solvable problem,
you're right, it is a solvable problem.
And we will begin to solve
it in about two sections.
First, we're gonna kind of
just go all the way a little
bit deeper with these nested auto layups.
So one of the examples we talked
about before is this ability to
build a navigation bar, right?
And this can become super easy
once we have auto layout, but
there's a few auto layouts going on here,
right?
If we take a look at some various
implementations of a navbar, well,
that's an auto layout right there,
like you're given navigation items, right?
But then even in the context of larger
navigation bar, also an auto layout.
You can have auto layout.
It's like,
I heard you like auto layouts, so
I put auto layouts in your auto layouts,
right?
You can begin to build up more
sophisticated components by kinda taking
all of these techniques and
beginning to combine them.
We'll kinda basically take that to its
natural conclusion in the kinda last
half of this course.
So if we wanna implement something
like this, we can go ahead.
Let's start with a frame.
And let's see, I think it's 48 pixels.
We can adjust it later.
It's not a big deal.
48 in height, 1024 seems good.
I have some various pieces
that I can use in here.
So for instance, I could start by just
taking one of these and drag it in there.
And right now,
we're not using auto layout.
It's kinda just floating around.
One of the tricks is the closer you
get it to how you want it before
you switch to an auto layout,
the more Figma will do for you, right?
And so as we saw before, if it's kinda in
the center of the button, it will guess.
When we had that 17 in between each one
of those navigation items, it's like you
must want a space of 17 in between each
one of these items, like totally, right?
The closer you can get it,
the better off you are, in a lot of cases.
So let's go ahead, and we'll give
this a height of, in this case, 48.
We'll kinda center it in
there a little bit, right?
Maybe we could even make it smaller,
I don't know.
Let's make it 40.
Yeah, we can always
adjust all of this later.
Nothing is really set in stone.
These are all right now just
individual words that we can bring in.
They are in a quick little group,
just so I can move them around easily.
But if we wanted to kind of pull out
each one of them, it's just a group.
It's not even a frame at this point.
So let's kinda bring it in there.
When we turn it into an auto layout,
it'll become a frame.
My groups don't really do anything.
You can't have any kind of spacing between
them, or they're just a very simple way to
collect things if you're trying
to move a bunch of stuff around.
But we'll see if we can turn
that into something a second.
And let's grab some icons,
which ones make us happy?
Let's grab the account one.
I should copy it instead.
Notice I started to drag it, and
I was like, I wanna copy, so
I just held down Alt or Option.
And it's like, you wanna copy,
cool, cool, cool.
And we'll go and
grab the shopping cart as well.
We'll put it over there.
Now, the important part is if
I just hit auto layout now,
it's not really sure
what the hierarchy is.
We know intellectually
that this is a piece.
That's fine,
that's a frame in its own, right?
This is a group, in this case.
If we had them all individually,
that would be cool,
these should all be
roughly the same thing.
Let me even them all out.
That's not really the design
we're going for, right?
And so the trick here is to begin to kind
of think about the actual hierarchy in
the same way you would do it with
your components in React, Vues, FELT,
what have you, right?
So we know that these two icons,
okay, that's the thing.
Let's go ahead and hit Cmd + Opt + G, or
Ctrl + Alt + G and
put them in a frame, these as well.
I'm curious to see what will happen
if just leave them in the group.
I could ungroup them and put them in
a frame, but let's find out together.
So we can go take this navbar.
I'll hit Shift+A and
turn it into an auto layout.
And not bad,
it's definitely top aligning everything,
but we can fix that super easily.
We can center everything, and
I can also do space between.
So these nav items are still a group.
They're not auto layout themselves.
This is just a frame with two items.
And it's not auto layout, so
if I drag things into either one of these
two sections,
that will not behave like I would like.
But the actual overall navbar
is presently an auto layout.
So let's go ahead and let's see
what happens if I stretch this out.
How does it behave?
Not bad for the very beginning, right?
You'll notice that these don't stretch
out, or anything along those lines,
cuz again, it's not an auto layout if
I dragged in an extra word, right?
So for instance, if I take this one,
let's make a copy, and
let's take one of these icons and
make a copy.
If I drag these in, you'll notice that
if you see that little blue cursor,
it's gonna try to put it in the layout
with everything else, right?
So we have one auto layout for
the navbar, but
there are kind of these child
auto layouts, if you will.
So let's bring that back out again.
So now we can grab this group,
And let's hit Shift+A.
And now you can see it is now
a frame instead of a group.
And now I can drag this one in,
and it behaves pretty much
like we would expect, and
then we'll turn this group.
Again, I can also hit the + sign here.
This is now an auto layout as well.
And like I said, we can add things.
Everything's kind of shifting around, as
we would expect in the appropriate place.
Just want the word create.
And I can pull that out.
I made a copy, wee.
And everything shifts and
readjusts like it would in the CSS.
This is great for thinking some stuff out.
I can go ahead and
grab a search bar as well,
and let's toss that in there.
Might be a little bit
too big in this case, so
let's, There we go.
All right, so now this is getting
a little bit squirrely in this case.
This is set to fixed width.
We could have it just fill a container.
Now you can see if we've got
the space between, right?
Our hierarchy is still
not great in this case,
right, cuz it's giving equal
spaced to all of these, right?
This naturally just takes
up a whole bunch as well.
So things that we could do is we could
theoretically adjust any of this.
I can tighten this up a bit.
I could put these in an auto layout as
well and kind of have the space in between
these two items, cuz then we'd have
three elements in here instead of four.
See what happens.
These are both in here now, and
let's shrink that down
a little bit as well here.
We can go ahead and
kind of adjust accordingly.
But everything will be laid out in that
kind of just general sense as well,
and you can kinda play out.
These are still pretty spaced out.
So if we go in here, we could say okay,
these should be 32 apart.
All right, we don't need three icons,
so let's go ahead and take that one out.
And we're starting to get more and
more what we're going for over here.
And the nice part is you don't have
to sit there and measure things.
You can basically say here are the rules.
I will group things, kind of adjust the
space in each kind of nested child group
and get more and more sophisticated
layouts as we go along in this case.
>> Do you recommend to adjust
it from up to down when
you resize, or do it in a head?
>> I'm not totally sure.
A lot of times I will put everything
in there roughly just the normal
non-auto layout way first, and
let auto layout start with the guesses,
cuz I'm just kind of just placing
stuff in an unsophisticated way.
And yeah, if I have them aligned,
it'll work a little bit easier.
And then most of the time,
one of the questions earlier too was,
generally speaking, you have some
amount of standardized measurement.
So Tailwind will have a certain p2 is 4
pixels, or 8 pixels, or whatever, right?
And you'll have these
standardized units that double.
So you wouldn't just have
arbitrary numbers in there.
You start out with okay,
things should either be 2, 4, 8, 16,
32 pixels apart,
something along those lines, and
start out with those just
general rough places in there.
And then you can kinda tweak in
the auto layout as you need it.